Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 24. In this
episode, Scott talks with Len
bass about computer science Past
and present. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
I'm here at the Saturn
conference at Carnegie Milligan conference
here in Portland, Oregon. And
I have the pleasure of
sitting down with Lynn bass,
who is a senior principal
researcher at the national ICT
Australia. How are you, sir?
I'm doing fine. Glad to
be here. Well, I'm glad
that I had a chance
to talk to you. I,
I read about your exploits
online and I have actually
have a copy of your
software architecture book, software architecture,
and practice practice, and a
third edition. I think I
have the second. Oh my
God. You need to buy
the third. Is it updated
with important things? Yeah. Yes.
I mean the second edition
was 10 years old and
we decided it was time
to refresh it. And so
we, the third edition is
I would say substantially better,
especially considering today's distributed systems.
So, so, so the third
edition deals with issues like
distributed systems, it deals with
issues like the cloud. It
deals with issues like programming
at the edge. I can't
remember off hand what else,
but yeah, there was a
lot of new material editor.
Okay, fantastic. Well, I'll be
sure to put a link
to that in the show
notes. So listeners can take
a look at that as
well. Excellent. So you've, you've
moved to Australia now and
you're working as a researcher
there, but you did some
work in the U S
that's notable as well. So
I was, I was 25
years at the software engineering
Institute. I was one of
the people that was involved
in the software architecture program
at the SEI, maybe a
little bit of a stretch
to say that's the best
collection of software architecture work
that, that existed. And I
was a portion of it,
you know? So, so yeah,
so you've been in the
industry for a long time.
You must have a number
of stories going back rather,
rather far, if I may.
So, so I got a
first job in 1964 when
I graduated. I had a
bachelor's in mathematics had essentially
never seen a computer before.
And I got a job
as a programmer because that's
what math mathematicians in those
days essentially had a choice
between it being actuaries and
being programmers for reasons. I
don't understand. I, I chose
programming and, and, and it
seems to have stuck. So
one of the stories, and
actually this is a story
that does have a modern
equivalent. One of the stories
is the first assignment I
was given was to calculate
some gravitational effects that involve
something called genre polynomials. So
you don't need to know
what it was John GRA
polynomial is, but it has
some factorial on the top
and some factorial on the
bottom and, and you divide
the one over the other
and you get a number.
So it turns out that
it took me about three
months to debug this. The
last, I would say about
six weeks of that three,
three months was trying to
find the same bug. So
it was at the time
for me, a difficult book.
And the problem was that
I saw factorial. I was
a mathematician of factorials and
endanger. You calculate the factorial
on the top, you calculate
the factorial on the bottom
and low and behold in
the computer world. The mathematics
is finite. And at the
time we hit 36 bit
words and you got to,
I think it was seven
factorial and it overflowed. So
it took me a long
time to do that, because
again, I'd never seen a
computer before. And so, so
I guess there were two
lessons from that. One is
that computer mathematics is finite.
You know, that the second
message is when you screw
up and you're young, it's
not your fault. And so
we had him and that's
still relevant. There was a
meeting between me and my
boss and my boss's boss,
and my boss's boss yelled
at my boss for not
taking for not managing me
better for not watching. And
so when you, when you're
a new employee in a
place and just out of
school or, or can plead
naivete the, then the, the
response is it's not your
fault if you screw up.
And so I screwed up,
it wasn't my fault. At
what point do you think
it would be your fault?
That's a good question. So,
so these days people get
responsibility more quickly than they
used to. So I guess
I would say it becomes
your fault the second time
you do it, you know?
Yeah, exactly, exactly. And so,
so, so that, that, that
particular machine was an IBM
70 94. And so that
was a 36 bit machine.
It had 32 K words
of 36 bits, and that's
not 30 to make or
anything. It was 32 K
and it was a single
threaded operating system. And so
the job flow was that
you sat down at a
key punch and you, you
punch some cards or maybe
you, you filled out the
key punch sheet, which was
punched by professional program. Key
punchers. One of the professional
key punchers had the little
finger of her left hand,
permanently bent backwards from hitting
the shift key. So I
suppose that would be an
occupational hazard. And then you
gave the cards to somebody
in the operation, staffs the
person on the operation staff,
stacked it, read it into
a card reader and a
card reader was attached to
the 70 94, 70 94.
When it was your turn
would read your cards would
process. It would spit it
out and then would generate
some printout. And the time
for this dependent on a
variety of things. But typically
it was on the order
of two, three hours. Okay.
So each card represented a
statement. Each card represented a
statement. So at the time
it was Fortran and, and
this, and, and it was
column oriented. So columns one
through five were a sequence
number where a, a label
that you could branch to
column six was in case
you extended past one card.
It was the continuation. It
meant that the two cards
represent one single statement, column
seven through 72 cups. Mason,
I remember this I'm impressed.
Yeah. Column 772, where the
text and column 73 through
80. And it was an
80 column card. It was
a sequence number because one
of the things that happens
with these cards is as
you drop them. So you
have a program that consists
of a hundred cards. You
drop them on the floor
and it's awfully nice to
do see programs that were,
the statements are the order
that you intended. And so,
and so the sequence numbers
were important. There was another
technique we use to, to,
to keep the cards in
order, which was, you wrote
on the top, which works.
Okay. If you have a
thick, this is better with,
with visuals, but it works
okay. If you have a
thick, thick occurred, you can
write on top, but when
you only have 10 or
20 Kurtz, how do you
get enough writing surface to
be actually to write it?
And the answer is you
fan them, you fan them
like you would fan a
card deck horizontally, and then
you would write on it
and then you would squish
it up. And it would
be a funny look and
fun, but, but you could
read it. So that was
another way of keeping them
in order The fact that
they were each a, a
statement is, is that equivalent
to a line of Fortran,
or would you have a
couple of cards represent a
line of text in that
there were multiple statements per
line At the time it
was at most one statement
per wine. It could be
multiple lines per statement. So
if you want it to
continue, if you had a
long one And dropping the
cards on the ground would
be effectively just a reordering
text file and completely randomly
reordering. Yeah. It's equivalent to
that. So, so one of
the interesting things is this
took about three hours to
get a compile airbag. So,
so, so you spent a
lot of time desk checking
to try and reduce the
errors. You also worked on
multiple projects because clearly Coley
management didn't want you to
spend three hours waiting for
your turnaround. So That's my
question. What are you doing
In the three hours? Yes.
Hanging out? No. So you
had multiple projects. So what
happened is that you, you
submitted something and you waited
for the output, and while
you're waiting, you move to
your next task. And, and
that's a different card deck,
if you will, a different,
a different program. And you
worked on that and, and,
and, and you had several
of these and you would
sequence through them through the
day. So one, one of
the modern complaints has to
do with, with the essentially
context. So just heard a
discussion and actually participated in
a discussion where peoples talk
about troubleshooting, the problem. And,
and one of the thrusts
of DevOps is, is that
the people that generated the
problem are the ones that
are notified immediately, as opposed
to going through intermediaries. And
one of the consequences of
that is you still have
fresh in your mind, the
tasks that you were working
on that ended up causing
the problem, because otherwise you
would have done a context
switch and, and, and lost
context. But when you're working
on three or four problems
at the same time, in
essence, then you're used to
doing context witches. And, and
so that was, would have
been a funny comment at
the time. Okay. So that,
that, that's the, that's one
story, two stories. If you
don't mind, I won't ask
a couple more questions about
punch cards. If you have
a 20, 30, 50 card
long application, and then you
have to go and debug
it, you have the sequence
numbers. What happens if one
statement needs to become 10?
Do you have to go
and re sequence the entire
deck? No. So, so first
of all, you didn't have
to have the sequence numbers.
Those were optional. Okay. Secondly,
there were things you did
in terms of sequence numbers.
So you would maybe sequence
a sequence from left to,
right. I'm sorry, right to
left. So, so if you
sequence them right to left,
you can add additional digits
without throwing off the sequence.
You could, you could sequence
them a hundred apart so
that when you added something
that might be, you know,
you would add them then
10 apart. And so, so
there were a variety of
techniques that you would use
in, in terms of utilizing
the sequence numbers. Mostly personally,
I didn't use the sequence
numbers because it was pure
laziness, I guess, you know,
you'd have to write them
down or you'd have to
punch him in or whatever
you have to specify them.
So there's another story that
has nothing to do with
computers, you know, but, but
it used to be that
telephones were big heavy devices.
And one of the problems
with mobile phones is that
a whole genre of mystery
stories disappears. I mean, I
can not pick up a
cell phone, hit you over
the head with it and
kill you. Maybe some sort
of, of, of, of metal
poisoning that were lingering really
kill you. But the old
phone court were, were quite
substantial and, and, and played
a large role in a
lot of old. Yeah. It
seems like in the movies.
Now, if you're going to
get bunked over the head,
that's with the blood of
a gun. Yeah, exactly. Back
in the day you hit
somebody with a phone, that
guy was going down. Those
were heavy Bakelite. Recently when
we moved to Australia, we
cleaned out our house and
had been there a long
time. And we had an
old Bakelite phone. So I
showed my grandson, the Bakelite
phone. He says, does it
still work? I said, yeah,
I had an adapter. We
plugged it in. He called
his mother and he says,
mother, Mom, guess what? I'm
talking to you on a
real old phone. I'm calling
you from the past. I'm
calling you from the past.
Exactly. There was a great
video on YouTube recently where
they showed some young kids,
eight, nine years old, a
rotary phone and they didn't,
it just was not intuitive.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah. So
we had to show him
how to die. Yeah. Yeah.
We used to joke about
how we thought that nine
one one was a bad
idea, because think of all
the people that we lost
waiting for the , we
should have been one, one,
one, if you really cared
about people Actually is one,
is it one, one, one
in Australia, maybe it's zero,
zero, zero. I forget. Anyway.
Well, one of those is
going to kill people. So,
so Back to the stories.
So, so in 1968, I
went to graduate school and
I went to graduate school
at Purdue university. And in
1967, Purdue opened a new
mathematical sciences slash computer sciences
building. I was a computer
scientist and they had plans
to put an IBM three
60 slash 67 in the
basement. So the IBM three
60, 67 was the first
commercially available machine with virtual
memory. IBM let's just say,
IBM misjudged, how long it
would take them to build
and deliver this, this system.
And so when they, when
Purdue opened the building, the
IBM three 60, 67 turned
out to have been three
years away from the actually
the first delivery. So they
replaced it with an IB,
with a CDC 6,600. So
that doesn't sound like such
a big deal, except that
you have to remember that
they wanted the three 60,
67 in the basement and
the way they arranged for
it to get in the
basement was they built an
elevator shaft to take it
down to the basement. Okay.
And these were big refrigerator
size, multiple. These, these were,
these were room-sized machines. Yeah.
It turns out that the
CDC was two inches bigger
than, than the IBM machine.
And so they had to
read, dig the elevator shaft
in order to make enough
space to get the machine
in the basement. So these
days you get bored waiting
10 minutes for a, a
virtual machine to spin up.
So think about having to
dig another elevator shaft, you
know, and wait for the
construction crews and the cement
to harden before you can
even start to put the
machine together. So let me
ask a couple of, and
forgive me ignorant questions about
this, these machines that we
waited three hours for a
compile. And we waited for
holes to be dug, to
use them where they were,
they faster as slow as
they were, were they faster
than us? And it really
was still faster for you
to use this than to
figure it out yourself with
a slide rule and a
piece of paper, right? They
were more powerful at doing
arithmetic type of operations. They
were especially useful for repetitive
air clinic type of operations.
So, so the reason you
would write a program was
not so much that you
wanted to do a single
calculation. It wasn't like having
a calculator where you would
type in the numbers. The
reason you wrote a program
was because you wanted to
do either very complicated calculations,
like the gravity example I
gave you or repetitive compensations.
I want to do the
same thing again and again
and again. And I don't
want to have to type
in the numbers every time
and hit all the pluses
and the minuses. It also
is, is less error prone.
So, so if I had
a complicated calculation that I
had to perform, then I
would had to type in
all the numbers and, and
move them around. And actually
that's the story. I know,
but it wasn't personal. The
word computer comes from the
way that people used to
do computations back when they
had adding machines. And so
you had a room full
of people sitting in front
of an adding machine, they
would get a card with
a number from their left
and another card with it,
from a number from, let's
say, they're up above them.
And their job would be
to add these two numbers,
write it on a card
and pass it off to
the person on their right.
And that those, those people
were called computers. And they
ran each program if you
will, twice, because it was
a very error prone process.
So, so that I believe
comes that story comes from
the forties or maybe, Wow,
that's funny that you mentioned
that story because I was
thinking to myself, would it
have been easier to just
find someone with some kind
of an identic memories, find
someone who's in some kind
of savant and put him
in the basement That that's
probably possible, except even in
those days there were labor
laws. You probably could have
worked 24 hours a day,
Couldn't work 24 hours a
day. These machines cost $2 million.
So my first job, I
got a, again, that's funny.
I remember these things. I
was paid $138 a week.
That good money. It was
good money. It was more
than professors who were making
it you. So I had
some friends that were college
professors and I was a
fresh bachelor's degree and I
was making more than they
were, but the computers cost
several million dollars. And so
they took better care of
the computers than they did
of the people. And so,
for example, I, at one
point worked in an unairconditioned
office, whereas the computer was
air conditioning when it got
hot, you know? And so
then you go visit the
computer, you go see how
it's doing because it's air
conditioning. You know, you want
to see how your program
is doing. Have you gotten
to me just checking on
it, just checking on it,
right? So you would hang
out there for a while
til you cool off, and
then you would go back
to work. So, so, so
I've gotten so far as
Purdue. I did two things
at Purdue. One was, I
was a graduate student doing
research and theory of computation.
The other, I was a
programmer. I was an assistant
research assistant, I guess, as
a systems programmer in the
high energy physics department. So
one takeaway from that, is
it true? And that these
were in two different facilities.
So one takeaway is that
it's really good to have
two offices. So if you
have two offices and people
can't find you in one,
they think you're in the
other. And so you always
have a built in excuse
for wanting to go lie
in the sun or just
take time off and go
do something else. And there
are various times throughout my
career. I've had two offices
and I've always thought that
was an ideal situation. I
think today, folks say I'm
working from home, working from
home, I think would be
the modern analog. So, so
the computer in the physics
department was an IBM three
60 model 44. And it's
what these days you would
call a risk computer and
that it did not have
a full three 60 instruction
set. So it needed an
additional that needed the operating
system. It had was very
limited. And so my task
with one other person was
to write a more modern,
which in those days meant
multi programming operating system. And
so you ask what I
took away from, from those
two jobs, the writing the
operating system has lasted a
lot longer than the theoretical
research that I did to
earn the PhD. So there
were a couple of stories
that come from that one
is they were showing me
how to use the computer.
So there was essentially a
power button on the thing.
And you had to tell
it the date and time.
So it didn't have automatic
date and time sequence. So
the sequence for powering up
was you pushed the power
button, you went over to
a typewriter kind of thing.
You typed in the date
and time and you hit
enter not too hard. Okay.
So, so they showed me
how to do it. They
said, okay, you try it.
So I pushed the button.
I went over to the
typewriter thing. I typed in
the date and time I
pushed enter the lights, went
out, bells went off and
I'm sitting there thinking, you
know, this is a multimillion
dollar machine. What did I
do? And it turns out
the power had failed at
exactly that instance. So, so,
so it was not my
fault. So, you know, my
standard response to things, it's
not my fault and this
case, it legitimately wasn't my
fault. You know? So, so,
so that happened. I don't
know what a modern analog
of that thing. I think
the modern analog is I
was, I was, my, my
dad is we're typing on
his computer and he's finished
his great treatise and he's
written his manifesto. And it's
just, as his finger comes
down hard on the enter
key with a satisfying and
finished blue screen of death.
Okay. And he calls me,
I did, I just pushed
enter. It's not my fault.
Assume it's your fault. You
take responsibility. He was ready
to fall on his sword,
but I'm pretty sure it's
the video driver don't think
it was. You could have
been you. So, so another
story this the late sixties
were during the Vietnam war
era. And so one of
the concerns in those days
was the United States still had
a conscription, still had a
draft. You got out of
the draft initially from being
a student and later from
having children. So I got
out of the draft because
I had children, but others
that were graduate students there
didn't. And so during that
period, there were a, radical's
not that much different than
today. Not so much in
the U S well, some
in the U S run
around blowing up things. And,
and there was a computer
room at the university of
Wisconsin that got blown up.
So, so that caused the,
the administration at Purdue to
worry about blowing up computers
in Purdue. And so they
put with you would call
an intrusion detection system in
the, in each computer. And
that was a reasonable thing
for them to worry about
that a computer might be
blown up by. So the
university of Wisconsin was in
Madison, Wisconsin, which was a,
a radical sort of place.
The universe Purdue university was
in the middle of Indiana,
a much more conservative type
of place. So the chances
of somebody at Purdue blowing
up a computer were much
less than, than at the
university of Wisconsin, but was
it reasonable? It was plausible
could hit, and people know
computers are a million dollars
or more, right? So if
you want to cause damage,
you blow up a dorm.
There's a million bucks. You
blow the computer. It's smaller,
it's still a million bucks.
Well, so the reason, the
reason this particular computer in
the university of Wisconsin was
blown up was because it
was doing defense work. And
so it was supporting the
war in Vietnam, nominally. And,
and so the, you know,
it was a target for,
for being blown up. I
mean, in reality, I suspect
it had nothing to do
with the war in Vietnam,
but you can't always choose
your targets. And so they
put this intrusion detection system
in one of the side
effects of using punch cards
is that they generate a
of dust. As every time
you put it through a
card reader, a little bit
get scraped off generates Dustin.
So there's a lot of
dust in the environment. And
so one of the preventative
maintenance activities that one would
perform is to have the
IBM repairman come in and
vacuum out the console. So
the intrusion detection system was,
was attached underneath the console,
and it was a silent
alarm in the sense that
you could push it. And
the intruder wouldn't know about
it. So the repair man
is lying on his back.
It's got a screwdriver in
his hand, he's taken off
the panel to get to
the innards of the computer.
He can't remove the panel
because there's this thing in
his way. And this thing
was the intrusion detection system.
So he unscrews the thing
which sets off the silent
alarm. He's sitting there with
his vacuum cleaner, going about
his business and buying. There
was this vacuum cleaner going
about his business. And all
of a sudden the riot
squad shows up in full
riot gear with sawed off
shotguns pointing at this guy,
lying on the floor, saying,
what are you doing down
there fella. So I guess,
you know, to, to, for,
for a, a modern analogy,
it's, you know, intrusion detections
have false positives and you
need to worry about false
positives as well as real
positives. There's a, there's a
great cartoon from called XKCD.
I'm sure you've probably seen
them the little stick figure
and a mother gets called
by the principal at the
child's school and says, I
wanted to talk to you
about your son. Is it
true that his name is
his last name is table's
semi-colon drop. And are you
sure that's his last name?
And she said, Oh yeah,
that little, little Bobby tables
we call them. And the
principal says something like, well,
you know, I think Bobby's
been up to some mischief
mischief lately. And the mother's
like, well, maybe you should
sanitize your database. So, so
that's another story that brings
to mind another story there
was a time at. So,
so in this era, computers
were centrally managed. And so
there was a computer for
the computer room for the,
for the campus, the Cornell
university wanted to cleanse the
material that went through their
computer. And so they had
some lists of forbidden words.
There was a faculty member
named Fink. Yeah. You see
where this is going? Right.
There was a faculty member
named Frank who was unable
to get any jobs through
the computer center. And so
finally they diagnosed it and
figured out because he was
on the list of forbidden
words. And, and so I
presume then they, they relaxed
some restrictions, but, but again,
this is a security kind
of issue. You're a privacy
sort of issue, I suppose,
these days, false positives, it's
just, they'll get you every
time. False positives are a
problem. And, and, and in
general, in, in the modern
world, every time something goes
wrong in, let's say the
cloud, there's a bunch of
data that has been gathered
from various monitoring and logging
systems and diagnosing that is
an art. And, and one
of the research activities is,
is, okay, let's build a
variety of automatic diagnostic tools
that can look at these
sorts of outputs and, and
generate, you know, diagnosis at
least, or at least the
diagnosis. And the problem with
them is both false positives
and false negatives. No one
has been able to satisfactorily
find algorithms that don't generate
false positives and false positives
are like crying Wolf. And,
and so then no one
pays any attention to the
real positives or false negatives,
which means something went wrong
and you didn't, I didn't
even notice, you know? And
so, so that that's, that's
a, a, an active area
of research and be a
good thing to work on.
I was at a hackathon
in New York and I was
basically setting up about a
hundred young women to get
onto the cloud. And they
were signing up for the
cloud and everything was working
out great. And after about
the 30th one, they all
started getting denied. We, they
thought it was a denial
of service tech cause they
couldn't get their systems. Couldn't
imagine a hundred people from
a single IP address deciding
to sign up at the
exact same time. So we
got blocked, made the entire
hackathon and of course makes
the product look bad. And
when it feels really guilty
and I had to go
and call and say, you
guys need to unblock this
IP address, which isn't a
big deal. You know, the
white list us for now.
Yeah, it's legitimate. And, and
there, there are a number
of security related types of
activities that generate false positives.
And so on one thing
I learned at this, I
heard it the second time
at this, at this conference,
one of the things that
organizations do to sensitize their
employees is a send out
their own fishing expeditions. So
it turns out that the
biggest security problem these days
is, is primarily fishing. That's,
that's where most of the
break-ins originate, not exclusively, but
an awful lot of them.
And so what organizations do
is they will, they will
fish their employees. And what
happens when you re when
you click a link is
that you get some sort
of, what's the reverse of
an attaboy, you know, you've
been poned okay. You've been
calling that, that phrase. I
hadn't heard. So, so that
you get some sort of,
of response saying this is
bad don't Yeah, absolutely. We
actually, I used to work
in banking and we were
warned that picking up stray
USB keys from the parking
lot, and then taking them
in and plugging them into
your computer was extremely bad
idea. And we had always
theorized that that would be
a brilliant way to do
kind of, yeah. Information warfare
is you just fly over
an implant Place, drop a
thousand USB keys into their
parking lot, and then just
simply wait for the bad
guys to pick up the
keys and plug them into
their company. Are you familiar
with the Stuxnet? Is that
how we did that? That
is how we did that.
Right. That's how that was
done. I didn't do it.
Yeah. Yeah. And so the,
at least the theory that
conjecture is that the, that
the virus was introduced to
a network, which was off
the internet. So they couldn't
do it directly through a,
a USB port key that
was, was, or a memory
stick, rather that was inserted
into a USB port, many
organizations, poxy the USB ports
on the computers that they
hand out just exactly for
that. Oh, wow. Just cover
it completely physical again. Physical
Security, physical security. Yeah. So
I mean, security it's itself
is, is a multilayered multifaceted
type of activity in there.
Fizzles physical security, there's organizational
security, there's there's technical level
of security. So that's one
of the areas where there's
an interplay between what the
organization does, the processes they
use in, and the architecture
that you design a continuous
delivery, which is my current.
I don't want to say
passion because I'm too old
to be passionate. But my
current, my current active area
of interest is another one.
So there are a number
of problems. So continuous delivery
is, is a process whereby
the developers commit code and
it automatically goes into, into
deployment or into production. And
there are problems that come
up doing that, and the
problems can be solved either
by improving the process, yelling
at the employees, by employees,
improving the architecture, making it
resilient, or improving the tools
that you use to move
through the, the deployment chain.
And so solutions consists of
interplay between the three of
those and can, and you
can trade, you can trade
off. So mostly when we
talk about trade offs, we
think about trading off one
runtime property against another one
time property, or maybe a
runtime property against a development
time property. But you can
also trade off or make
decisions as to where activities
get done and how long
and how they get achieved.
And so you can either
solve some problems with architectural
means. You can solve some
problems with tooling. You can
solve some problems with process
means or all three It's
always seems like the issue
of people is what it
comes down to. Well, people
will mess it up. If
the computers have been told
what to do correctly, it's
going to be someone a
mistake with social Engineering or
phishing or pushing the wrong
button. Well, I, I guess
so you can design systems
so that it's harder to
make mistakes. So, so, so
that's, that's a human factors
kind of issue. You can
design the tools so that
it's harder to make mistakes
in terms of input. You
can design the tools so
that they check, they verify
the input. So again, there
are a variety of different
ways that that solutions can
be and be achieved. And,
and as not a software
engineer, but as a system
engineer, I mean, that's part
of your task is, is
to decide on what is
the most appropriate and cost
effective method of solving particular
problems. And do you cover
some of these things in
the latest release of your
book? So I'm actually in
the process of writing a
new book and, and, and,
and I'm using social media
to get feedback on it.
So, so the new book
is called DevOps, colon software
architects perspective. So if, if
you're at all interested in
dev ops, there's a lot
of material that talks about.
So dev ops is, is
a movement, which is intended
to make operations people. First
class citizens, as far as
software developers are concerned. So
they have requirements they have,
then their requirements should be
fed in at the front
end, just, just as, as
the cusp, as the business
facing requirements should be. And
there's a lot of material
on the it perspective for
this, from the operations people.
There's a, a good book
by a jazz humble, and
the other author will shoot
me. Cause I can't remember
his name of Valor a
no, no, but it's another
ThoughtWorks person. I had Jess
humble on the show talking
about continuous delivery. And so
that's the book that gives
us the world from the
project manager's perspective. Okay. So
what is dev ops from
our project manager's perspective? And
for me, there was a
perspective missing, which was the
architect's perspective, which is how
do you design these things?
Well, I'm a software architect.
I'm told that I need
to learn about dev ops,
or I need to use
dev ops in, in my
current, in my current job.
You know, what is it,
you know, how much time
do I want to spend
doing research? You know, it's
a lot of work. And
so I decided that was
a gap that, that needed
to be filled. And I
volunteered myself until my colleagues
at Nikta to fill it.
So we've been writing a
book. So when we've written
the other books, the process
is you write the books,
you keep it to yourself
until you have a first
draft, you send it to
the publisher, they send it
out for review, you get
comments back. It's a very,
a time consuming and be
a limited set of review
comments. And arguably it's the
opposite of continuous delivery. Yes,
there are at least incremental
delivery. And, and so for
this book, we're, we're, we're,
we're doing a different thing.
We are publishing the chapters
as we complete them on
SlideShare and people are welcome
to send us a comments,
comments. We've gotten some comments,
some feedback, some, some people
just say they like it,
which is nice to hear,
but it doesn't help us
improve it. And so we
have six chapters out there
at the moment the book
is projected to be, I
forget, well, it depends how
many case studies we have.
So, so there are, let
me say 10 or 11
chapters of material. And ideally
four chapters of case studies.
We've released one chapter of
case study. We have another
one where we have, I
think, negotiated with a company
to be the case study.
And we're releasing them one
chapter at a time. And
the, the book is, I
would say, half done, and
we will have the first
draft complete by the end
of the year. So where
can I send people where
they can give you feedback?
So, so, so I chair
collects feedback. So, so I
chair has, has a, an
option for comments. When we,
when we do a new
chapter, I posted on LinkedIn.
So you can put common,
most people put comments on
LinkedIn, few ones. So I
chair, okay, well, I'll collect
the links from you. And
we'll put them in the
show notes to send people
directly to read the current
chapters and getting feedback. So
we have a website that
links to the current chapters.
It has the, the outline
and the preface and some
other material, but it provides
links to the current chapter.
So yeah, I encourage people
to read it and be,
to send us comments. Fantastic.
Thank you so much, Lynn,
Dennis, for chatting with me
today, it's been my pleasure.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .